LIFE CYCLE OF DATA

Plan, Capture, Manage, Analyze, Archive and Destroy.

->  Planning: This actually happens well before starting an analysis project. During planning, a business decides what kind of data it needs, how it will be 
    managed throughout its life cycle, who will be responsible for it, and the optimal outcomes.
    
    Capture data: This is where data is collected from a variety of different sources and brought into the organization. With so much data being created everyday, 
    the ways to collect it are truly endless. 
    One common method is getting data from outside resources.
    Another way to get data is from a company's own documents and files, which are usually stored inside a database. A database is a collection of data stored in a 
    computer system.
    
    Manage: Here we're talking about how we care for our data, how and where it's stored, the tools used to keep it safe and secure, and the actions taken to 
    make sure that it's maintained properly. This phase is very important to data cleansing.
    
    Analyze your data: This is where data analysts really shine. In this phase, the data is used to solve problems, make great decisions, and support business goals.
    
    Archive phase: Archiving means storing data in a place where it's still available, but may not be used again. During analysis, analysts handle huge amounts 
    of data. Can you imagine if we had to sort through all of the available data that's out there, even if it was no longer useful and relevant to our work? 
    It makes way more sense to archive it than to keep it around.
    
    Destroy phase. Yes, it sounds sad, but when you destroy data, it won't hurt a bit. So let's get back to our electricity provider example. They would have 
    data stored on multiple hard drives. To destroy it, the company would use a secure data erasure software. If there were any paper files, they would be shredded too.
    This is important for protecting a company's private information, as well as private data about its customers. 
    
 -> Plan: Decide what kind of data is needed, how it will be managed, and who will be responsible for it.

    Capture: Collect or bring in data from a variety of different sources.

    Manage: Care for and maintain the data. This includes determining how and where it is stored and the tools used to do so.

    Analyze: Use the data to solve problems, make decisions, and support business goals.

    Archive: Keep relevant data stored for long-term and future reference.

    Destroy: Remove data from storage and delete any shared copies of the data.
    
 -> The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service uses the following data life cycle:

    Plan

    Acquire

    Maintain

    Access 

    Evaluate

    Archive
    
 -> The USGS uses the data life cycle below:

    Plan

    Acquire

    Process

    Analyze

    Preserve

    Publish/Share
    
 -> Financial institutions may take a slightly different approach to the data life cycle as described in The Data Life Cycle, an article in Strategic Finance magazine:

    Capture

    Qualify

    Transform

    Utilize

    Report

    Archive

    Purge
    
 -> One final data life cycle informed by Harvard University research has eight stages:

    Generation

    Collection

    Processing

    Storage 

    Management

    Analysis

    Visualization

    Interpretation
    
 DETAILED EXPLANATION OF DATA ANALYTICS PROCESS - ASK, PREPARE, PROCESS, ANALYZE, SHARE, ACT
 
 -> Ask phase: In this phase, we do two things. We define the problem to be solved and we make sure that we fully understand stakeholder expectations. 
    Stakeholders hold a stake in the project. They are people who have invested time and resources into a project and are interested in the outcome. 
    Let's break that down. 
    First, defining a problem means you look at the current state and identify how it's different from the ideal state. Usually there's an obstacle we need to 
    get rid of or something wrong that needs to be fixed. For instance, a sports arena might want to reduce the time fans spend waiting in the ticket line.
    The obstacle is figuring out how to get the customers to their seats more quickly. 
    Another important part of the ask phase is understanding stakeholder expectations. The first step here is to determine who the stakeholders are. That may 
    include your manager, an executive sponsor, or your sales partners. There can be lots of stakeholders. But what they all have in common is that they help 
    make decisions, influence actions and strategies, and have specific goals they want to meet. They also care about the project and that's why it's so important 
    to understand their expectations. Communicating with your stakeholders is key in making sure you stay engaged and on track throughout the project. So as a 
    data analyst, developing strong communication strategies is very important. This part of the ask phase helps you keep focused on the problem itself, not 
    just its symptoms. 
    
-> Prepare step of the data analysis process: This is where data analysts collect and store data they'll use for the upcoming analysis process. 
    Any decisions made from your analysis should always be based on facts and be fair and impartial. ou'll learn more about the different types of data and how to
    identify which kinds of data are most useful for solving a particular problem. You'll also discover why it's so important that your data and results are
    objective and unbiased.
    
 -> Process step: Here, data analysts find and eliminate any errors and inaccuracies that can get in the way of results. This usually means cleaning data, 
    transforming it into a more useful format, combining two or more datasets to make information more complete and removing outliers, which are any data 
    points that could skew the information. After that, you'll learn how to check the data you prepare to make sure it's complete and correct. 
    This phase is all about getting the details right. So you'll also fix typos, inconsistencies, or missing and inaccurate data. To top it off, you'll gain 
    strategies for verifying and sharing your data cleansing with stakeholders. 
    
 -> Analyze: Analyzing the data you've collected involves using tools to transform and organize that information so that you can draw useful conclusions, 
 make predictions, and drive informed decision-making. There are lots of powerful tools data analysts use in their work and in this course you'll learn 
 about two of them, spreadsheets and structured query language, or SQL, which is often pronounced "sequel."
