-> A database is a collection of data stored in a computer system, but storage is just the beginning. 

-> Metadata is data about data. Like I said: deep.
   Metadata is extremely important when working with databases. Think of it like a reference guide. Without the guide all you have is a bunch of data with no context
   explaining what it means. Metadata tells you where the data comes from, when and how it was created, and what it's all about.

-> A relational database is a database that contains a series of related tables that can be connected via their relationships. For two tables to have a relationship, 
   one or more of the same fields must exist inside both tables.

-> There are two types of keys:
      1. Primary Key: A primary key is an identifier that references a column in which each value is unique. You can think of it as a unique identifier for each row 
         in a table. If you do decide to include a primary key, it should be unique, meaning no two rows can have the same primary key. It cannot be null or blank.
      2. Foreign Key: A foreign key is a field within a table that's a primary key in another table. In other words, a foreign key is how one table can be connected to 
         another.

-> A table can only have one primary key but it can have multiple foreign keys. 

-> A primary key is used to ensure data in a specific column is unique. It uniquely identifies a record in a relational database table. Only one primary key is 
   allowed in a table and they cannot contain null or blank values. 
   And a foreign key is a column or group of columns in a relational database table that provides a link between the data and two tables. It refers to the field in a 
   table that's the primary key of another table. Lastly, it's important to note that more than one foreign key is allowed to exist in a table.

-> One more type of key is COMPOSITE KEY. Some tables don't require a primary key. For example, a revenue table can have multiple foreign keys and not have a primary 
   key. A primary key may also be constructed using multiple columns of a table. This type of primary key is called a composite key. For example, if customer_id and 
   location_id are two columns of a composite key for a customer table, the values assigned to those fields in any given row must be unique within the entire table.

-> Metadata is information that's used to describe the data that's contained in something, like a photo or an email. Keep in mind that metadata is not the data 
   itself. Instead, it's data about the data. In data analytics, metadata helps data analysts interpret the contents of the data within a database. That's why 
   metadata is so important when working with databases. It tells an analyst what the data is all about. That makes it possible to put the data to work solving 
   problems and making data-driven decisions. 

-> There are three common types of metadata that you'll come across: descriptive, structural, and administrative.
      1. Descriptive metadata is metadata that describes a piece of data and can be used to identify it at a later point in time. For instance, the descriptive 
         metadata of a book in a library would include the code you see on its spine, known as a unique International Standard Book Number, also called the ISBN.
         It would also include the book's author and title.
      2. Structural metadata, which is metadata that indicates how a piece of data is organized and whether it's part of one or more than one data collection. 
         Let's head back to the library. An example of structural data would be how the pages of a book are put together to create different chapters. 
         It's important to note that structural metadata also keeps track of the relationship between two things. For example, it can show us that the
         digital document of a book manuscript was actually the original version of a now printed book. 
      3. Administrative metadata is metadata that indicates the technical source of a digital asset. When we looked at the metadata inside the photo, that was 
         administrative metadata. It shows you the type of file it was, the date and time it was taken, and much more.

-> Elements of metadata
   Before looking at metadata examples, it is important to understand what type of information metadata typically provides.

      1. Title and description
         What is the name of the file or website you are examining? What type of content does it contain?

      2. Tags and categories
         What is the general overview of the data that you have? Is the data indexed or described in a specific way? 

      3. Who created it and when
         Where did the data come from, and when was it created? Is it recent, or has it existed for a long time?

      4. Who last modified it and when
         Were any changes made to the data?  If yes, were the modifications recent?

      5. Who can access or update it
         Is this dataset public? Are special permissions needed to customize or modify the dataset?

-> Examples of metadata
   In today’s digital world, metadata is everywhere, and it is becoming a more common practice to provide metadata on a lot of media and information you interact 
   with. Here are some real-world examples of where to find metadata:

      1. Photos
         Whenever a photo is captured with a camera, metadata such as camera filename, date, time, and geolocation are gathered and saved with it.

      2. Emails
         When an email is sent or received, there is lots of visible metadata such as subject line, the sender, the recipient and date and time sent. There is 
         also hidden metadata that includes server names, IP addresses, HTML format, and software details.

      3. Spreadsheets and documents
         Spreadsheets and documents are already filled with a considerable amount of data so it is no surprise that metadata would also accompany them. Titles, 
         author, creation date, number of pages, user comments as well as names of tabs, tables, and columns are all metadata that one can find in spreadsheets and
         documents. 

      4. Websites
         Every web page has a number of standard metadata fields, such as tags and categories, site creator’s name, web page title and description, time of 
         creation and any iconography. 

      5. Digital files
         Usually, if you right click on any computer file, you will see its metadata. This could consist of file name, file size, date of creation and 
         modification, and type of file. 

      6. Books
         Metadata is not only digital. Every book has a number of standard metadata on the covers and inside that will inform you of its title, author’s name, 
         a table of contents, publisher information, copyright description, index, and a brief description of the book’s contents.

      7. Data as you know it
         Knowing the content and context of your data, as well as how it is structured, is very valuable in your career as a data analyst. When analyzing data, it 
         is important to always understand the full picture. It is not just about the data you are viewing, but how that data comes together. Metadata ensures that
         you are able to find, use, preserve, and reuse data in the future. Remember, it will be your responsibility to manage and make use of data in its entirety;
         metadata is as important as the data itself.

-> BENEFITS OF METADATA:
      1. Metadata creates a single source of truth by keeping things consistent and uniform. We data analysts love consistency. 
      2. Metadata also makes data more reliable by making sure it's accurate, precise, relevant, and timely. 

-> One of the ways data analysts make sure their data is consistent and reliable is by using something called a metadata repository. 
   A metadata repository is a database specifically created to store metadata. Metadata repositories can be stored in a physical location, or they can be virtual, 
   like data that exists in the cloud. These repositories describe where metadata came from, keep it in an accessible form so it can be used quickly and easily, 
   and keep it in a common structure for everyone who may need to use it. Metadata repositories make it easier and faster to bring together multiple sources for 
   data analysis. They do this by describing the state and location of the metadata, the structure of the tables inside, and how data flows through the repository. 
   They even keep track of who accesses the metadata and when.

-> Metadata is stored in a single, central location and it gives the company standardized information about all of its data. This is done in two ways. 
   First, metadata includes information about where each system is located and where the data sets are located within those systems. 
   Second, the metadata describes how all of the data is connected between the various systems. 
   
   Another important aspect of metadata is something called data governance. 
   Data governance is a process to ensure the formal management of a company’s data assets. This gives an organization better control of their data and helps a
   company manage issues related to data security and privacy, integrity, usability, and internal and external data flows. It's important to note that data 
   governance is about more than just standardizing terminology and procedures. It's about the roles and responsibilities of the people who work with the 
   metadata every day.
   
   These are metadata specialists, and they organize and maintain company data, ensuring that it's of the highest possible quality. These people create basic 
   metadata identification and discovery information, describe the way different data sets work together, and explain the many different types of data resources. 
   Metadata specialists also create very important standards that everyone follows and the models used to organize the data. There's one thing they all have in 
   common. Whether they work at a tech company, a nonprofit association, or a financial institution, metadata analysts are great team players. They're passionate 
   about making data accessible by sharing with colleagues and other stakeholders.

-> WAYS OF IMPORTING DATA FROM OTHER SPREADSHEETS:
      1. GOOGLE SHEETS: In Google Sheets, you can use the IMPORTRANGE function. It enables you to specify a range of cells in the other spreadsheet to duplicate in 
         the spreadsheet you are working in. You must allow access to the spreadsheet containing the data the first time you import the data.
         
      2. MICROSOFT EXCEL: To import data from another spreadsheet, do the following:  
            Step 1: Select Data from the main menu.

            Step 2: Click Get Data, select From File, and then select From Workbook.

            Step 3: Browse for and select the spreadsheet file and then click Import.

            Step 4: In the Navigator, select which worksheet to import.

            Step 5: Click Load to import all the data in the worksheet; or click Transform Data to open the Power Query Editor to adjust the columns and rows of data you want to import.

            Step 6: If you clicked Transform Data, click Close & Load and then select one of the two options:

                     Close & Load - import the data to a new worksheet

                     Close & Load to... - import the data to an existing worksheet 
        
        3. FROM CSV FILES: 
            - Google Sheets:
               Step 1: Open the File menu in your spreadsheet and select Import to open the Import file window. 

               Step 2: Select Upload and then select the CSV file you want to import.

               Step 3:  From here, you will have a few options. For Import location, you can choose to replace the current spreadsheet, create a new spreadsheet, 
               insert the CSV data as a new sheet, add the data to the current spreadsheet, or replace the data in a specific cell. The data will be inserted as 
               plain text only if you uncheck the Convert text to numbers, dates, and formulas checkbox, which is the default setting. Sometimes a CSV file uses a 
               separator like a semi-colon or even a blank space instead of a comma. For Separator type, you can select Tab or Comma, or select Custom to enter 
               another character that is being used as the separator. 

               Step 4: Select Import data. The data in the CSV file will be loaded into your sheet, and you can begin using it!
             
             - Microsoft Excel:
               Step 1: Open a new or existing spreadsheet

               Step 2: Click Data in the main menu and select the From Text/CSV option.

               Step 3: Browse for and select the CSV file and then click Import.

               Step 4: From here, you will have a few options. You can change the delimiter from a comma to another character such as a semicolon. You can also 
               turn automatic data type detection on or off. And, finally, you can transform your data by clicking Transform Data to open the Power Query Editor.

               Step 5: In most cases, accept the default settings in the previous step and click Load to load the data in the CSV file to the spreadsheet. 
               The data in the CSV file will be loaded into the spreadsheet, and you can begin working with the data.

-> Sorting involves arranging data into a meaningful order to make it easier to understand, analyze, and visualize. Data can be sorted in ascending or descending 
   order, and alphabetically or numerically. Sorting can be done across all of a spreadsheet or just in a single column or table. You can also sort by 
   multiple variables.
