ASK PHASE OF DATA ANALYSIS

In the ask step, we define the problem we're solving and make sure that we fully understand stakeholder expectations. This will help keep you focused on the 
actual problem, which leads to more successful outcomes.

STRUCTURED THINKING

Structured thinking is the process of recognizing the current problem or situation, organizing available information, revealing gaps and opportunities, and 
identifying the options. In this process, you address a vague, complex problem by breaking it down into smaller steps, and then those steps lead you to a logical 
solution. 

MODULES OR PHASES OF THIS COURSE:

1. Asking effective questions: To do the job of a data analyst, you need to ask questions and problem-solve. In this part of the course, you’ll check out some common 
   analysis problems and how analysts solve them. You’ll also learn about effective questioning techniques that can help guide your analysis.

2. Making data-driven decisions: In analytics, data drives decision making. In this part of the course, you’ll explore data of all kinds and its impact on decision 
   making. You’ll also learn how to share your data through reports and dashboards.

3. Mastering spreadsheet basics: Spreadsheets are an important data analytics tool. In this part of the course, you’ll learn both why and how data analysts use 
   spreadsheets in their work. You’ll also explore how structured thinking can help analysts better understand problems and come up with solutions. 

4. Always remembering the stakeholder: Successful data analysts learn to balance needs and expectations. In this part of the course, you’ll learn strategies 
   for managing the expectations of stakeholders while establishing clear communication with your team to achieve your objectives.  

5. Completing the Course Challenge: At the end of this course, you will be able to put everything you have learned into practice with the Course Challenge. 
   The Course Challenge will ask you questions about key principles you have been learning about and then give you an opportunity to apply those principles in 
   three scenarios. 

-> Marketing analytics is the process of measuring, analyzing, and managing a company’s marketing strategy and budget. Often, this involves identifying the company’s 
   target audience. 
   Company's target audience are the people that the company is trying to reach.
   
Step 1: Ask
It’s impossible to solve a problem if you don’t know what it is. These are some things to consider:

   Define the problem you’re trying to solve 

   Make sure you fully understand the stakeholder’s expectations

   Focus on the actual problem and avoid any distractions

   Collaborate with stakeholders and keep an open line of communication

   Take a step back and see the whole situation in context

Questions to ask yourself in this step: 
   What are my stakeholders saying their problems are?

   Now that I’ve identified the issues, how can I help the stakeholders resolve their questions?
   
Step 2: Prepare 
You will decide what data you need to collect in order to answer your questions and how to organize it so that it is useful. You might use your business task 
to decide: 

   What metrics to measure

   Locate data in your database

   Create security measures to protect that data

Questions to ask yourself in this step: 
   What do I need to figure out how to solve this problem?

   What research do I need to do?
   
Step 3: Process
Clean data is the best data and you will need to clean up your data to get rid of any possible errors, inaccuracies, or inconsistencies. This might mean:

   Using spreadsheet functions to find incorrectly entered data 

   Using SQL functions to check for extra spaces

   Removing repeated entries

   Checking as much as possible for bias in the data

Questions to ask yourself in this step: 
   What data errors or inaccuracies might get in my way of getting the best possible answer to the problem I am trying to solve?

   How can I clean my data so the information I have is more consistent?
   
   
Step 4: Analyze 
You will want to think analytically about your data. At this stage, you might sort and format your data to make it easier to: 

   Perform calculations

   Combine data from multiple sources

   Create tables with your results

Questions to ask yourself in this step:
   What story is my data telling me?

   How will my data help me solve this problem?

   Who needs my company’s product or service? What type of person is most likely to use it?
   
Step 5: Share
Everyone shares their results differently so be sure to summarize your results with clear and enticing visuals of your analysis using data via tools like graphs 
or dashboards. This is your chance to show the stakeholders you have solved their problem and how you got there. Sharing will certainly help your team:  

   Make better decisions

   Make more informed decisions

   Lead to stronger outcomes

   Successfully communicate your findings

Questions to ask yourself in this step:
   How can I make what I present to the stakeholders engaging and easy to understand?

   What would help me understand this if I were the listener?
   
Step 6: Act
Now it’s time to act on your data. You will take everything you have learned from your data analysis and put it to use. This could mean providing your 
stakeholders with recommendations based on your findings so they can make data-driven decisions.

Questions to ask yourself in this step:
   How can I use the feedback I received during the share phase (step 5) to actually meet the stakeholder’s needs and expectations?
   
-> These six steps can help you to break the data analysis process into smaller, manageable parts, which is called structured thinking. This process involves 
   four basic activities:

      Recognizing the current problem or situation

      Organizing available information 

      Revealing gaps and opportunities

      Identifying your options

-> Data analysts work with a variety of problems. Six common types of problems include:
   making predictions, categorizing things, spotting something unusual, identifying themes, discovering connections, and finding patterns. 
   
   1. Making predictions: This problem type involves using data to make an informed decision about how things may be in the future.
   
   2. Categorizing things: This means assigning information to different groups or clusters based on common features.
   
   3. Spotting something unusual: In this problem type, data analysts identify data that is different from the norm.
   
   4. Identifying themes: Identifying themes takes categorization as a step further by grouping information into broader concepts.
   
   5. Discovering connections: This enables data analysts to find similar challenges faced by different entities, and then combine data and insights to address them.
   
   6. Finding patterns: Data analysts use data to find patterns by using historical data to understand what happened in the past and is therefore likely to happen 
      again.
      
-> EXAMPLES FOR EACH PROBLEM TYPE:

   Making predictions 
   A company that wants to know the best advertising method to bring in new customers is an example of a problem requiring analysts to make predictions. Analysts 
   with data on location, type of media, and number of new customers acquired as a result of past ads can't guarantee future results, but they can help predict 
   the best placement of advertising to reach the target audience.

   Categorizing things 
   An example of a problem requiring analysts to categorize things is a company's goal to improve customer satisfaction. Analysts might classify customer service 
   calls based on certain keywords or scores. This could help identify top-performing customer service representatives or help correlate certain actions taken with 
   higher customer satisfaction scores.

   Spotting something unusual 
   A company that sells smart watches that help people monitor their health would be interested in designing their software to spot something unusual. Analysts 
   who have analyzed aggregated health data can help product developers determine the right algorithms to spot and set off alarms when certain data doesn't trend 
   normally.

   Identifying themes 
   User experience (UX) designers might rely on analysts to analyze user interaction data. Similar to problems that require analysts to categorize things, usability
   improvement projects might require analysts to identify themes to help prioritize the right product features for improvement. Themes are most often used to help 
   researchers explore certain aspects of data. In a user study, user beliefs, practices, and needs are examples of themes. 

   By now you might be wondering if there is a difference between categorizing things and identifying themes. The best way to think about it is: categorizing things 
   involves assigning items to categories; identifying themes takes those categories a step further by grouping them into broader themes.

   Discovering connections 
   A third-party logistics company working with another company to get shipments delivered to customers on time is a problem requiring analysts to discover 
   connections. By analyzing the wait times at shipping hubs, analysts can determine the appropriate schedule changes to increase the number of on-time deliveries. 

   Finding patterns
   Minimizing downtime caused by machine failure is an example of a problem requiring analysts to find patterns in data. For example, by analyzing maintenance data,
   they might discover that most failures happen if regular maintenance is delayed by more than a 15-day window. 
   
-> It is important that we ask the right questions. Effective questions follow the SMART methodology. 
   That means they're specific, measurable, action-oriented, relevant and time-bound.
   
   1. Specific questions are simple, significant and focused on a single topic or a few closely related ideas. This helps us collect information that's relevant 
      to what we're investigating. If a question is too general, try to narrow it down by focusing on just one element. 

