-> A dashboard is a tool that organizes information, typically from multiple data sets, into one central location for tracking, analysis, and simple visualization 
   through charts, graphs, and maps. And just like filters and spreadsheets and queries. A dashboard filter is a tool for showing only the data that meets a specific 
   criteria while hiding the rest.

-> Data storytelling is communicating the meaning of a data set with visuals and a narrative that are customized for each particular audience. A narrative is another
   word for a story. 

-> There are three data storytelling steps:
   1. The first is knowing how to engage your audience. Engagement is capturing and holding someone's interest and attention. When your audience is engaged, you're
      much more likely to connect with them and convince them to see the same story you see. Every data story should start with audience engagement, all successful 
      storytellers consider who's listening first. For instance, when a kindergarten teacher is choosing books for their class. they'll pick ones that are appropriate
      for five-year-olds. If they were to choose high school level novels, the complex subject matter would probably confuse the kids and they'd get bored and tune out.
      
   2. The second step is to create compelling visuals. In other words, you want to show the story of your data, not just tell it. Visuals should take your audience on 
      a journey of how the data changed over time or highlight the meaning behind the numbers. Here's an example, let's say a cosmetic company keeps track of stores 
      that buy its product and how much they buy. You could communicate the data to others in a spreadsheet like this, or you could create a colorful visual such as
      this pie chart, which makes it easy to see which stores are most and least profitable as business partners. That's a much clearer and more visually interesting
      approach. 
      
   3. Now, the third and final step is to tell the story in an interesting narrative. A narrative has a beginning, a middle, and an end. It should connect the data 
      you've collected to the project objective and clearly explain important insights from your analysis. To do this, it's important that your data storytelling is 
      organized and concise. 

-> Spotlighting is scanning through the data to quickly identify the most important insights. There are many ways to spotlight, but lots of data analysts like to use 
   sticky notes on a whiteboard.

-> In Tableau, tiled items can't be layered over other objects. They are part of a single-layer grid that automatically resizes based on the overall dashboard size. 
   You can layer floating items over other objects.

-> The narrative you share with your stakeholders needs characters, a setting, a plot, a big reveal, and an "aha moment," just like any other story. 
   
   The characters are the people affected by your story. This could be your stakeholders, customers, clients, and others. When adding information about your 
   characters to your story, you have a great opportunity to include a personal account and bring more human context to the facts that the data has revealed—think 
   about why they care. 
   
   Next up is a setting, which describes what's going on, how often it's happening, what tasks are involved, and other background information about the data
   project that describes the current situation.

   The plot, sometimes called the conflict, is what creates tension in the current situation. This could be a challenge from a competitor, an inefficient process
   that needs to be fixed, or a new opportunity that the company just can't pass up. This complication of the current situation should reveal the problem your 
   analysis is solving and compel the characters to act. 
   
   The big reveal, or resolution, is how the data has shown that you can solve the problem the characters are facing by becoming more competitive, improving a 
   process, inventing a new system, or whatever the ultimate goal of your data project may be. 
   
   Finally, your "aha moment" is when you share your recommendations and explain why you think they'll help your company be successful.
