-> Stakeholders are people that have invested time, interest, and resources into the projects that you'll be working on as a data analyst. In other words, they 
   hold stakes in what you're doing. There's a good chance they'll need the work you do to perform their own needs. That's why it's so important to make sure your
   work lines up with their needs and why you need to communicate effectively with all of the stakeholders across your team. Your stakeholders will want to discuss
   things like the project objective, what you need to reach that goal, and any challenges or concerns you have. This is a good thing. These conversations help build
   trust and confidence in your work. 
   
-> You might remember that stakeholders are people who have invested time, interest, and resources into the projects that you are  working on. This can be a pretty 
   broad group, and your project stakeholders may change from project to project. But there are three common stakeholder groups that you might find yourself working
   with: the executive team, the customer-facing team, and the data science team.
   
-> EXECUTIVE TEAM
   
   The executive team provides strategic and operational leadership to the company. They set goals, develop strategy, and make sure that strategy is executed 
   effectively. The executive team might include vice presidents, the chief marketing officer, and senior-level professionals who help plan and direct the company’s
   work. These stakeholders think about decisions at a very high level and they are looking for the headline news about your project first.  They are less interested 
   in the details. Time is very limited with them, so make the most of it by leading your presentations with the answers to their questions. You can keep the more
   detailed information handy in your presentation appendix or your project documentation for them to dig into when they have more time. 
   
-> CUSTOMER FACING TEAM
   
   The customer-facing team includes anyone in an organization who has some level of interaction with customers and potential customers. Typically they compile 
   information, set expectations, and communicate customer feedback to other parts of the internal organization. These stakeholders have their own objectives and 
   may come to you with specific asks. It is important to let the data tell the story and not be swayed by asks from your stakeholders to find certain patterns that 
   might not exist. 
   
-> DATA SCIENCE TEAM

   Organizing data within a company takes teamwork. There's a good chance you'll find yourself working with other data analysts, data scientists, and data 
   engineers.
   
-> Working effectively with stakeholders
      1. Discuss goals
      2. Feel empowered to say "no"
      3. Plan for the unexpected
      4. Know your project
      5. Satrt with words and visuals
      6. Communicate often
      
->  As a data analyst, you could be working on multiple projects with lots of different people but no matter what project you're working on, there are three
    things you can focus on that will help you stay on task. 
    One, who are the primary and secondary stakeholders? 
    Two who is managing the data? 
    Where can you go for help?
    
-> Communication is the key.
   Before you communicate, think about:
      1. Who your audience is?
      2. What they already know?
      3. What they need to know?
      4. How you can communicate that effectively to them?
      
-> There are best practices you can follow to make sure your meetings are a success. There are some really simple things you can do to make a great meeting. 
   Come prepared, be on time, pay attention, and ask questions. 
   
-> There are some obvious "don'ts" here. You don't want to show up unprepared, late, or distracted for meetings. You also don't want to dominate the conversation, 
   talk over others, or distract people with unfocused discussion. 
   
LEADING GREAT MEETINS

One day soon, you might find yourself planning a meeting in your role as a data analyst. Great things can happen when participants anticipate a well-executed 
meeting. Attendees show up on time. They aren’t distracted by their laptops and phones. They feel like their time will be well spent. It all comes down to good
planning and communication of expectations. The following are our best practical tips for leading meetings.

A group of co-workers sitting in a meeting room. A person is standing pointing at a presentation board.

BEFORE THE MEETING
   If you are organizing the meeting, you will probably talk about the data. Before the meeting: 

   Identify your objective. Establish the purpose, goals, and desired outcomes of the meeting, including any questions or requests that need to be addressed.

   Acknowledge participants and keep them involved with different points of view and experiences with the data, the project, or the business.

   Organize the data to be presented. You might need to turn raw data into accessible formats or create data visualizations. 

   Prepare and distribute an agenda. We will go over this next.

CRAFTING A COMPELLING AGENDA
   A solid meeting agenda sets your meeting up for success. Here are the basic parts your agenda should include: 

   Meeting start and end time

   Meeting location (including information to participate remotely, if that option is available)

   Objectives 

   Background material or data the participants should review beforehand

Here's an example of an agenda for an analysis project that is just getting started:

This illustration is a sample meeting agenda that includes sections for Goals, Questions, and Next Steps.
Sharing your agenda ahead of time
After writing your agenda, it's time to share it with the invitees. Sharing the agenda with everyone ahead of time helps them understand the meeting goals and 
prepare questions, comments, or feedback. You can email the agenda or share it using another collaboration tool.

DURING THE MEETING
   As the leader of the meeting, it's your job to guide the data discussion. With everyone well informed of the meeting plan and goals, you can follow these steps 
   to avoid any distractions:

   Make introductions (if necessary) and review key messages

   Present the data 

   Discuss observations, interpretations, and implications of the data

   Take notes during the meeting

   Determine and summarize next steps for the group 
   
AFTER THE MEETING
   To keep the project and everyone aligned, prepare and distribute a brief recap of the meeting with next steps that were agreed upon in the meeting. You can even
   take it a step further by asking for feedback from the team.

   Distribute any notes or data 

   Confirm next steps and timeline for additional actions

   Ask for feedback (this is an effective way to figure out if you missed anything in your recap)

A final word about meetings
Even with the most careful planning and detailed agendas, meetings can sometimes go off track. An emergency situation might steal people’s attention. A recent 
decision might unexpectedly change requirements that were previously discussed and agreed on. Action items might not apply to the current situation. If this happens, you might be forced to shorten or cancel your meeting. That's all right; just be sure to discuss anything that impacts your project with your manager or stakeholders and reschedule your meeting after you have more information. 


