-> Analysis is the process used to make sense of the data collected. It means taking the right steps to proceed and think about your data in different ways. The
   goal of analysis is to identify trends and relationships within the data so that you can accurately answer the question you're asking. 
   
-> 4 phases of analysis are:
   1) Organize data
   2) Format and adjust data
   3) Get input from others
   4) Transform data by observing relationships between data points and making calculations

-> Tables help you organize similar kinds of data into categories and subject areas that you can focus on as you analyze.

-> The structure of this database can help you decide which data you need to pull to meet your objectives.

-> Sorting and filtering are two ways you can keep things organized when you format and adjust data to work with it. For example, a filter can help you find errors
   or outliers so you can fix or flag them before your analysis. Outliers are data points that are very different from similarly collected data and might not be 
   reliable values. The benefit of filtering the data is that after you fix errors or identify outliers, you can remove the filter and return the data to its original
   organization.
   
   Sorting is when you arrange data into a meaningful order to make it easier to understand, analyze, and visualize. It ranks your data based on a specific metric you 
   choose. You can sort data in spreadsheets, SQL databases (when your dataset is too large for spreadsheets), and tables in documents. 
   
   Filtering is used when you are only interested in seeing data that meets a specific criteria, and hiding the rest. Filtering is really useful when you have lots of 
   data. You can save time by zeroing in on the data that is really important or the data that has bugs or errors. Most spreadsheets and SQL databases allow you to
   filter your data in a variety of ways. Filtering gives you the ability to find what you are looking for without too much effort.

-> Sorting is when you arrange data into a meaningful order to make it easier to understand, analyze, and visualize. Sorting ranks your data based on a specific
   metric that you can choose. You can sort data in spreadsheets and databases that use SQL.

-> Filtering is showing only the data that meets a specific criteria while hiding the rest. Typically you can use filters when you want to narrow down the amount of 
   data you want to sift through.

-> When sorting data in a spreadsheet, you can choose to "Sort sheet" or "Sort range." 
   If "Sort sheet" is applied, all of the data in a spreadsheet is sorted by the conditions of a single column, but the related information across each row stays 
   together.
   On the other hand, "Sort range" doesn't keep the information across rows together. When you sort a range, you're selecting a specific collection of cells or 
   the range that you want the sorting limited to. Nothing else on the spreadsheet gets rearranged but the specified cells. 
   
   There's two methods for sorting spreadsheet data: one involves using the menu; the other involves writing out the sort function. 
   
   
