-> SQL is a structured query language that analysts use to work with databases. Data analysts usually use SQL to deal with large datasets because it can handle huge 
   amounts of data.

-> Relational databses: This is a database that contains a series of tables that can be connected to form relationships. 

-> FEATURES OF SPREADSHEETS:
   1. Smaller data sets
   2. Enter data manually.
   3. Creates graphs and visualizations in the same program.
   4. Built-in spell check and other useful functions.
   5. Best when working solo on a project.
   
-> FEATURES OF SQL DATABASES:
   1. Large datasets.
   2. Access tables across a database.
   3. Prepare data for further analysis in another software.
   4. Fast and powerful functionality.
   5. Great for collaborative work and tracking queries run by all users.

-> SPREADSHEETS
   1. Generated with a program.
   2. Access to the data you input.
   3. Stored locally
   
-> SQL
   1. A language used to interact with database programs.
   2. Can pull information from different sources in the database.
   3. Stored across a database.
   
-> Data is measured by the number of bits it takes to represent it. All information in a computer can be represented as a binary number consisting solely of 0’s and 
   1’s. Each 0 or 1 in a number is a bit. A bit is the smallest unit of storage in computers. Since computers work in binary (Base 2), this means that all the 
   important numbers that differentiate between different data sizes will be powers of 2.  

   A byte is a collection of 8 bits. Take a moment to examine the table below to get a feel for the difference between data measurements and their relative sizes to 
   one another. 

-> If we want to create a new table for this database, we can use the CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS statement. Keep in mind, just running a SQL query doesn't actually 
   create a table for the data we extract. It just stores it in our local memory. To save it, we'll need to download it as a spreadsheet or save the result into a
   new table.
   
   Another good thing to keep in mind, if you're creating lots of tables within a database, you'll want to use the DROP TABLE IF EXISTS statement to clean up after
   yourself. It's good housekeeping. You probably won't be deleting existing tables very often. After all, that's the company's data, and you don't want to delete
   important data from their database. But you can make sure you're cleaning up the tables you've personally made so that there aren't old or unused tables with
   redundant information cluttering the database.
