-> Analytical skills are qualities and characteristics associated with solving problems using facts.

-> Five essential points with respect to analytical skills are curiosity, understanding context, having technical mindset, data design, and data strategy. 

   KEY ANALYTICAL SKILLS

-> Curiosity is all about wanting to learn something. Curious people usually seek out new challenges and experiences. This leads to knowledge.
   
   Context is the condition in which something exists or happens. This can be a structure or an environment.
   
   A technical mindset involves the ability to break things down into smaller steps or pieces and work with them in an orderly and logical way.
   
   Data design is how you organize information. As a data analyst, design typically has to do with an actual database. But, again, the same skills can easily be 
   applied to everyday life.
   
   Data strategy is the management of the people, processes, and tools used in data analysis.
   
   ANALYTICAL THINKING
   
-> Analytical thinking involves identifying and defining a problem and then solving it by using data in an organized, step-by-step manner.
   
   FIVE KEY ASPECTS TO ANALYTICAL THINKING
   
-> visualization, strategy, problem-orientation, correlation, big-picture and detail-oriented thinking.

-> Visualization is the graphical representation of information. Some examples include graphs, maps, charts, or other design elements. Visualization is 
   important because visuals can help data analysts understand and explain information more effectively.
   
   The second part of analytical thinking is being strategic. With so much data available, having a strategic mindset is key to staying focused and on track. 
   Strategizing helps data analysts see what they want to achieve with the data and how they can get there. Strategy also helps improve the quality and 
   usefulness of the data we collect. By strategizing, we know all our data is valuable and can help us accomplish our goals. 
   
   Being problem-oriented. Data analysts use a problem-oriented approach in order to identify, describe, and solve problems. It's all about keeping the problem 
   at top of mind throughout the entire project.
       
   The fourth quality of analytical thinking: being able to identify a correlation between two or more pieces of data. A correlation is like a relationship. 
   You can find all kinds of correlations in data. Maybe it's the relationship between the length of your hair and the amount of shampoo you need. 
   Or maybe you notice a correlation between a rainier season leading to a high number of umbrellas being sold. But as you start identifying correlations in data, 
   there's one thing you always want to keep in mind: Correlation does not equal causation. In other words, just because two pieces of data are both trending in 
   the same direction, that doesn't necessarily mean they are all related.   
   
   Big-picture thinking. This means being able to see the big picture as well as the details. It helps you zoom out and see possibilities and opportunities. 
   This leads to exciting new ideas or innovations. On the flip side, detail-oriented thinking is all about figuring out all of the aspects that will help you 
   execute a plan. In other words, the pieces that make up your puzzle. 
   
   QUESTIONS ASKED BY DATA ANALYSTS
   
->  What is the root cause of a problem? A root cause is the reason why a problem occurs. If we can identify and get rid of a root cause, we can prevent that 
    problem from happening again. 
    
    A simple way to wrap your head around root causes is with the process called the Five Whys. In the Five Whys you ask "why" five times to reveal the root cause. 
    The fifth and final answer should give you some useful and sometimes surprising insights. Example: BLueberry/Mulberry.
    
-> Another question commonly asked by data analysts is, where are the gaps in our process? For this, many people will use something called gap analysis. 

   Gap analysis lets you examine and evaluate how a process works currently in order to get where you want to be in the future. Businesses conduct gap analysis 
   to do all kinds of things, such as improve a product or become more efficient. The general approach to gap analysis is understanding where you are now 
   compared to where you want to be. Then you can identify the gaps that exist between the current and future state and determine how to bridge them.
   
-> A third question that data analysts ask a lot is, what did we not consider before? This is a great way to think about what information or procedure might be
   missing from a process, so you can identify ways to make better decisions and strategies moving forward.
    
    
   
   
   
