-> Keeping your data organized is important for a few reasons; it makes it easier to find and use, helps you avoid making mistakes during your analysis and helps to 
   protect it.

-> Naming conventions. These are consistent guidelines that describe the content, date, or version of a file in its name. Basically, this means you want to use 
   logical and descriptive names for your files to make them easier to find and use. 

-> There are two more things you'll want to consider when organizing data for work use. First, the project data you'll be using for work could be accessed and used 
   by multiple people. It's important to align your naming and storage practices with your team to avoid any confusion. Your team might also develop metadata 
   practices like creating a file that outlines project naming conventions for easy reference. 

-> Secondly, you want to think about how often you're making copies of data and storing it in different places. Most importantly, because if data is stored in lots 
   of different databases or spreadsheets, it can contradict itself and lead to mistakes later on. Also storing data in multiple places takes up a lot of space. 
   Relational databases can help you avoid data duplication and store your data more efficiently.

-> Best practices for file naming conventions
      Review the following file naming recommendations:

      Work out and agree on file naming conventions early on in a project to avoid renaming files again and again.

      Align your file naming with your team's or company's existing file-naming conventions.

      Ensure that your file names are meaningful; consider including information like project name and anything else that will help you quickly identify
      (and use) the file for the right purpose.

      Include the date and version number in file names; common formats are YYYYMMDD for dates and v## for versions (or revisions).

      Create a text file as a sample file with content that describes (breaks down) the file naming convention and a file name that applies it.

      Avoid spaces and special characters in file names. Instead, use dashes, underscores, or capital letters. Spaces and special characters can cause 
      errors in some applications.

   Best practices for keeping files organized
      Remember these tips for staying organized as you work with files:

      Create folders and subfolders in a logical hierarchy so related files are stored together.

      Separate ongoing from completed work so your current project files are easier to find. Archive older files in a separate folder, or in an external 
      storage location.

      If your files aren't automatically backed up, manually back them up often to avoid losing important work.

-> When you use consistent guidelines that describe the content, date, or version of a file and its name, you're using file naming conventions. As we've already 
   discovered, these file naming conventions help us organize, access, process, and analyze our data.

-> Here's some quick file naming Do's. 
      Work out your conventions early to avoid having to spend time redoing it later. 
      Align your file naming with your team and make sure your file names are meaningful with references to the project name, creation date, revision version, 
      or any other useful information needed to understand what's in that file. 
      Now, there's some other simple things you can do to make sure your file naming conventions are on point. 
      First of all, you want to keep your file name short and sweet. They're supposed to be quick reference points that tell you what's in a file. 
      From earlier videos, we know that we want to include dates and revision numbers in our file names. I recommend formatting it by year, month, and day 
      because that follows the international date standard. 
      Different countries have different date conventions, so keep that in mind. 
      When you include revision numbers in a file name, lead with a zero, so that if you run into double digits of revisions, it's already built into your 
      conventions. 
      Another good rule is to use hyphens, underscores, or capitalized letters instead of using spaces. Spaces and special characters might not be 
      recognized by your software. 
      Plus avoiding spaces definitely makes it easier to work in SQL. My last bit of advice: create a text file that lays out all your naming conventions on a 
      project.

-> Data security means protecting data from unauthorized access or corruption by adopting safety measures.
