-> Spreadsheets are the most important and foremost tool for data analysis.

-> Some basic or common math functions used in spreadsheets are:
   1. Sum
   2. Average
   3. Count
   4. Min
   5. Max
   
-> SPREADSHEET TASKS:
   1. Organise your data
      - Pivot Table: well organized and very useful tables. Sort and filter Data.
   2. Perform Calculations on your data or Calculate your data (Use formulas or functions).
         
-> In Google Sheets, users have different access privileges. As owner of the sheet, you can choose the access level for your collaborators. Click Editor in the 
   dropdown and choose the access level:

   1. Can edit — collaborators can add and edit content or comments. Choose this access level if you want them to be able to make changes to your spreadsheet.

   2. Can comment — collaborators can add comments, but can't edit content. Choose this level if you just want their feedback.

   3. Can view — collaborators can view the file, but cannot edit or add comments. Choose this level if you want to share a spreadsheet as an optional resource and 
      you don’t need feedback.         
      
-> Operators are symbols that name the type of operation or calculation to be performed. 

->  A cell reference is a single cell or range of cells in a worksheet that can be used in a formula. Cell references contain the letter of the column and the number 
    of the row where the data is. 
    
    A range of cells is a collection of two or more cells. A range can include cells from the same row or column, or from different columns and rows collected 
    together. 
 
 -> SPREADSHEET ERRORS AND FIXES
     
    1. #DIV/0! : A formula is trying to divide a value in a cell by 0 or by an ampty cell.
       To fix use IFERROR(value, [value_if_error])
       
    2. #ERROR! : A formula can't be interpreted as input (also called parsing error).
      To fix: Insert delimiter.
      
    3. #N/A : Data in a formula can't be found by the spreadaheet. Data doesnt exist. Occurs while using VLOOKUP mostly.
    
    4. #NAME? : A formula or function name is not understood. Occurs due to typos.
    
    5. #NUM! : A formula or function calculation cannot be performed as specified.
    
    6. #VALUE! : A general error that could indicate a problem with a formula or referenced cells.
    
    7. #REF! : A formula is referencing a cell that is no longer valid or has been deleted.
    
 -> A function is a preset command that automatically performs a specific process or task using the data. 
 
 -> problem domain: the specific area of analysis that encompasses every activity affecting or affected by the problem. Before we can do anything else, we need 
    to understand the problem domain and all of its parts and relationships so that we can discover the whole story.
    
 -> Structured thinking is the process of recognizing the current problem or situation, organizing available information, revealing gaps and opportunities, and 
    identifying the options. In other words, it's a way of being super prepared. It's having a clear list of what you are expected to deliver, a timeline for major 
    tasks and activities, and checkpoints so the team knows you're making progress. 
    
 -> A scope of work or SOW is an agreed- upon outline of the work you're going to perform on a project. For many businesses, this includes things like work 
    details, schedules, and reports that the client can expect.
    
 -> At this point, try not to confuse statement of work with scope of work, which are both abbreviated as SOW. Although they both are used to define deliverables 
    and a timeline, they aren't the same and shouldn't be used interchangeably.

    A statement of work is a document that clearly identifies the products and services a vendor or contractor will provide to an organization. It includes 
    objectives, guidelines, deliverables, schedule, and costs. 

    A scope of work is project-based and sets the expectations and boundaries of a project. A scope of work may be included in a statement of work to help define 
    project outcomes. 

    As a junior data analyst, It's more typical to be asked to create a scope of work than a statement of work. 
     
->  When you create a complete SOW, you include:
    1. Deliverables
    2. Timeline
    3. Milestones
    4. Reports
    
-> Context is the condition in which something exists or happens.

-> A data analyst considers who, what, when, where, why, and how in order to put information into the context.

-> We use data at many different levels. Sometimes our data is descriptive, answering questions like, how much did we spend on travel last month? Data becomes 
   more valuable, as we generate diagnostic and predictive insights, like understanding why travel spend increased last month. Data is most valuable, however, 
   when we can generate prescriptive insights. For example, how can we leverage data to incentivize more efficient travel? Figuring out what data means, is just
   as important as collecting it. 
   
-> Context can turn raw data into meaningful information. It is very important for data analysts to contextualize their data. This means giving the data perspective by defining it. To do this, you need to identify:

      Who: The person or organization that created, collected, and/or funded the data collection

      What: The things in the world that data could have an impact on

      Where: The origin of the data

      When: The time when the data was created or collected

      Why: The motivation behind the creation or collection

      How: The method used to create or collect it
