-> Data Analytics is the collection and analysis and then use of data to tell stories, using charts and visualizations, so that businesses can make better decisions. 

-> Data visualization is the graphic representation and presentation of data. In reality, it's just putting information into an image to make it easier for other 
   people to understand.

-> Today we can quantify human behavior through data, and we've learned to use computers to collect, analyze and visualize that data. As an analyst in today's world, 
   you'll probably split your time with data visuals in two ways: looking at visuals in order to understand and draw conclusions about data or creating visuals from 
   raw data to tell a story. 

-> Four elements of effective data visualization are: Information(data), Story(concept), goal(function), visual form(story).
   
   Information: the data you are working with

   Story: a clear and compelling narrative or concept

   Goal: a specific objective or function for the visual

   Visual form: an effective use of metaphor or visual expression
   
-> Pre-attentive attributes are the elements of a data visualization that people recognize automatically without conscious effort. The essential, basic building 
   blocks that make visuals immediately understandable are called marks and channels. Marks, Size, Shape, Colour.
   
   Channels are visual aspects or variables that represent characteristics of the data. Channels are basically marks that have been used to visualize data. Accuracy,
   popout, grouping.

-> Bar graphs use size contrast to compare two or more values. The horizontal line of a bar graph usually placed at the bottom, is called the x-axis, and bar graphs 
   with vertical bars, the x-axis is used to represent categories, time periods, or other variables. The vertical line of a bar graph usually placed to the left is
   called the y-axis. The y-axis usually has a scale of values for the variables. In this example, the time of day is compared to someone's level of motivation 
   throughout the whole workday. Bar graphs are a great way to clarify trends. 
   
-> Line graphs are a type of visualization that can help your audience understand shifts or changes in your data. They're usually used to track changes through a
   period of time, but they can be paired with other factors too.

-> Pie charts show how much each part of something makes up the whole. 

-> Pie charts show proportions and percentages between categories. Each part of the circle or pi should reflect its percentage to the whole, which is equal to 
   100 percent.

-> One of your biggest considerations when creating a data visualization is where you'd like your audience to focus. Showing too much can be distracting and leave
   your audience confused. In some cases, restricting data can be a good thing. On the other hand, showing too little can make your visualization unclear and less
   meaningful. As a general rule, as long as it's not misleading, you should visually represent only the data that your audience needs in order to understand your 
   findings.
   
   what you can show with visualizations. Change over time is a big one. If your analysis involves how the data has changed over a certain period, which could be
   days, weeks, months, or years. You can set your visualization to show only the time period relevant to your objective.
   
->  A histogram resembles a bar graph, but it's a chart that shows how often data values fall into certain ranges. This histogram shows a lot of data and how it's
   distributed on a narrow range from a negative one to a positive one. Each bin or bucket, as the bar is called, contains a certain number of values that fall 
   into one small part of the range.

-> Correlation charts can show relationships among data, but they should be used with caution because they might lead viewers to think that the data shows causation.
   Causation or a cause-effect relationship occurs when an action directly leads to an outcome. Correlation and causation are often mixed up because humans like
   to find patterns even when they don't exist. If two variables look like they're associated in some way, we might assume that one is dependent on the other. 
   That implies causation, even if the variables are completely independent. If we put that data into a visualization, then it would be misleading.
   But correlation charts that do show causation can be effective.
   
-> Correlation in statistics is the measure of the degree to which two variables move in relationship to each other. An example of correlation is the idea that 
   “As the temperature goes up, ice cream sales also go up.” It is important to remember that correlation doesn’t mean that one event causes another. But, it does
   indicate that they have a pattern with or a relationship to each other. If one variable goes up and the other variable also goes up, it is a positive correlation.
   If one variable goes up and the other variable goes down, it is a negative or inverse correlation. If one variable goes up and the other variable stays about the
   same, there is no correlation.
   
   Causation refers to the idea that an event leads to a specific outcome. For example, when lightning strikes, we hear the thunder (sound wave) caused by the air
   heating and cooling from the lightning strike. Lightning causes thunder.  
   
-> Static visualizations do not change over time unless they're edited. They can be useful when you want to control your data and your data story. Any visualization
   printed on paper is automatically static. Charts and graphs created in spreadsheets are often static too.
   
   dynamic visualizations are interactive or change over time. The interactive nature of these graphics means that users have some control over what they see. This
   can be helpful if stakeholders want to adjust what they're able to view.
   
-> A decision tree is a decision-making tool that allows you, the data analyst, to make decisions based on key questions that you can ask yourself. Each question 
   in the visualization decision tree will help you make a decision about critical features for your visualization.

->  Lines and visualizations can be curved or straight, thick or thin, vertical, horizontal, or diagonal. They can add visual form to your data and help build a 
   structure for your visualization. These charts show some of the variety that lines can bring to your data viz. The combo chart shows two different types of 
   lines, both providing a graphic for the data. The line chart does the same, but uses curved lines instead. Shapes are also known for their variety. 
   
   Shapes and visualizations should always be two-dimensional. This is because three-dimensional objects in a visualization can complicate the visual and confuse 
   the audience. Shapes are also a great way to add eye-catching contrast, especially size contrast to your data story. This circle used for a pie chart lets 
   someone quickly understand the data in a familiar format. Shapes with symmetry are usually more familiar to people, so there's less work for the audience to
   do when viewing symmetrical data viz. But the asymmetrical shapes in this map are still instantly recognizable as countries. It's good to note that the data 
   you're sharing with your audience will usually inform the types of shapes you want to use in your data viz. 
   
   Next, we have colors, and colors are, well, colors. Of course, in the eyes of artists and analysts, colors can be much more complex. Colors can be described by 
   their hue, intensity, and value. The hue of a color is basically its name, red, green, blue and so on. Intensity is how bright or dull a color is, and finally,
   there's value. The value is how light or dark the colors are in a visualization. In more scientific terms value indicates how much light is being reflected. 
   Dark values with some black added are called shades of color, like these shades of green. Light values with white added are called tints, like these tints of
   blue. In this map, there are shades and tints of gray. The value of these colors help us understand the population data in the map and varying the color's value
   can be a very effective way to draw our audience's attention to specific areas. 
   
   Space is the area between, around and in the objects. There should always be space in data visualizations, just not too much or too little. For example, the 
   space between the bars of a bar graph like this one should be smaller than the width of the bars themselves. This will draw the viewer's attention to the bar 
   and the data it represents instead of the empty space. 
  
   Finally, there's movement. Movement is used to create a sense of flow or action in a visualization.
   One of my favorite examples is the data viz, the Wealth and Health of Nations. This viz showcases a correlation between the financial health and physical health
   of nations. It traces these elements over time so you can see how the two correlated effects play out. The movement pulls in data from the 1800s all the way up
   until recently. The interactivity allows for a greater volume of data to be displayed and we'll reveal multiple stories from the same data visualization.
   Remember, this is something that should be used sparingly. There's a fine line between attracting attention and distracting the audience. 
   A static image lets you control all elements of the story you want to tell. When you start incorporating movement and interactivity, the story is controlled by 
   whoever is controlling the interactivity, whether that's you or possibly your audience if you've turned control over to them. 
   
-> Nine basic principles of design 
There are nine basic principles of design that data analysts should think about when building their visualizations.  

The 9 principles of design icons: Balance, emphasis, movement, pattern, repetition, proportion, rhythm, variety, unity

1. Balance: The design of a data visualization is balanced when the key visual elements, like color and shape, are distributed evenly. This doesn’t mean that you 
need complete symmetry, but your visualization shouldn’t have one side distracting from the other. If your data visualization is balanced, this could mean that the
lines used to create the graphics are similar in length on both sides, or that the space between objects is equal. For example, this column chart (also shown below)
is balanced; even though the columns are different heights and the chart isn’t symmetrical, the colors, width, and spacing of the columns keep this data 
visualization balanced. The colors provide sufficient contrast to each other so that you can pay attention to both the motivation level and the energy level
displayed.

2. Emphasis: Your data visualization should have a focal point, so that your audience knows where to concentrate. In other words, your visualizations should 
emphasize the most important data so that users recognize it first. Using color and value is one effective way to make this happen. By using contrasting colors,
you can make certain that graphic elements—and the data shown in those elements—stand out. 

For example, you will notice a heat map data visualization below from The Pudding’s “Where Slang Comes From" article. This heat map uses colors and value intensity
to emphasize the states where search interest is highest. You can visually identify the increase in the search over time from low interest to high interest. This 
way, you are able to quickly grasp the key idea being presented without knowing the specific data values.

3. Movement: Movement can refer to the path the viewer’s eye travels as they look at a data visualization, or literal movement created by animations. Movement in
data visualization should mimic the way people usually read. You can use lines and colors to pull the viewer’s attention across the page. 

For example, notice how the average line in this combo chart (also shown below) draws your attention from left to right. Even though this example isn’t moving, it 
still uses the movement principle to guide viewers’ understanding of the data. 

4. Pattern: You can use similar shapes and colors to create patterns in your data visualization. This can be useful in a lot of different ways. For example,
you can use patterns to highlight similarities between different data sets, or break up a pattern with a unique shape, color, or line to create more emphasis.

In the example below, the different colored categories of this stacked column chart (also shown below) are a consistent pattern that makes it easier to compare book
sales by genre in each column. Notice in the chart that the Fantasy & Sci Fi category (royal blue) is increasing over time even as the general category (green) is
staying about the same. 

5. Repetition: Repeating chart types, shapes, or colors adds to the effectiveness of your visualization. Think about the book sales chart from the previous example:
the repetition of the colors helps the audience understand that there are distinct sets of data. You may notice this repetition in all of the examples we have 
reviewed so far. Take some time to review each of the previous examples and notice the elements that are repeated to create a meaningful visual story.

6. Proportion: Proportion is another way that you can demonstrate the importance of certain data. Using various colors and sizes helps demonstrate that you are 
calling attention to a specific visual over others. If you make one chart in a dashboard larger than the others, then you are calling attention to it. It is 
important to make sure that each chart accurately reflects and visualizes the relationship among the values in it. In this dashboard (also shown below), the 
slice sizes and colors of the pie chart compared to the data in the table help make the number of donuts eaten by each person the focal point. 

These first six principles of design are key considerations that you can make while you are creating your data visualization. These next three principles are useful
checks once your data visualization is finished. If you have applied the initial six principles thoughtfully, then you will probably recognize these next three
principles within your visualizations already. 

7. Rhythm: This refers to creating a sense of movement or flow in your visualization. Rhythm is closely tied to the movement principle. If your finished design 
doesn’t successfully create a flow, you might want to rearrange some of the elements to improve the rhythm.

8. Variety: Your visualizations should have some variety in the chart types, lines, shapes, colors, and values you use. Variety keeps the audience engaged. But it 
is good to find balance since too much variety can confuse people. The variety you include should make your dashboards and other visualizations feel interesting and
unified.

9. Unity: The last principle is unity. This means that your final data visualization should be cohesive. If the visual is disjointed or not well organized, it will
be confusing and overwhelming. 

-> This is known as data composition, and it's achieved by combining the individual parts of a visualization and displaying them together as a whole. Stack bars, 
   donuts, stacked areas, pie charts and tree maps can do all this. Now to show relationships in your data, you might want to use scatterplot and bubble charts,
   column/line charts and heatmaps. 
   
-> Design thinking is a process used to solve complex problems in a user-centric way.

->  While the design thinking process comes in lots of different forms, they all have stages or phases. We'll talk about five phases that you can use when creating 
data visualizations, empathize, define, ideate, prototype, and test. In the spirit of design thinking, these phases don't have to follow a set order. Instead, think
of them as an overview of actions that can help you produce a user centered design in your visualizations. In the empathize phase you think about the emotions and 
needs of the target audience of your data viz, whether it's stakeholders, team members or the general public. Here you should avoid areas where people might face 
obstacles interacting with your visualizations. For example, let's say you've been working on an analysis for a pharmaceutical company about how patients have been
responding to a new treatment. You're getting ready to visualize the data, so you should think about the audience, which will include stakeholders like pharmacists,
doctors and other medical professionals. Maybe you're thinking of using a color scheme that you like, but you realize that these colors might be a challenge to some
people. The colors might be too bright or dramatic, which might not be right for the seriousness of the data. Or the colors might not have enough contrast for people
who have color vision deficiencies.

By adjusting the colors, you'll be empathizing with the needs of your audience. If there's someone on your team who is vision impaired, you want to find a way to 
explain the data verbally as well. The define phase helps you to find your audiences needs, their problems, and your insights. This goes hand in hand with the 
empathize phase as you'll use what you learned in that phase to help you spell out exactly what your audience needs from your visualization. You could use this 
phase to think about which data to show in your visualization. Maybe this data viz will also be presented to patients who are part of your company's study.

While you'll need to meet your objectives, there might be data that could make these people uncomfortable.

You can think of ways to position that data to make it more digestible. Or if you're presenting to different audiences, you can adjust your visualizations to meet 
each group's needs by seeking input from members of the group or colleagues who've worked with that group before.

In the ideate phase, you start to generate your data viz ideas. You'll use all of your findings from the empathize and define phases to brainstorm potential data 
viz solutions.

This might involve creating drafts of your visualization with different color combinations or maybe experimenting with different shapes. Creating as many examples 
as possible will help you refine your ideas. The key here is to always remember your audience when coming up with ideas and strategies. You want to think about how
you can position your visualizations to meet the needs and expectations of your audience. The final two phases are prototype and test. Here you'll start putting
your charts, dashboards or other visualizations together.

-> A headline is a line of words printed in large letters at the top of the visualization to communicate what data is being presented. It's the attention-grabber 
that makes your audience want to read more. Take charts, for example. A chart without a headline is like a report without a title. You want to make it easy to 
understand what your chart's about. Be sure to use clear, concise language, explaining all information as plainly as possible. Try to avoid using abbreviations or
acronyms, even if you think they're common knowledge. The typography and placement of the headline is important too. It's best to keep it simple. Make it bold or 
a few sizes larger than the rest of the text and place it directly above the chart, aligned to the left.

A subtitle supports the headline by adding more context and description. Use a font style that matches the rest of the charts elements and place the subtitle
directly underneath the headline.

A legend or key identifies the meaning of various elements in a data visualization and can be used as an alternative to labeling data directly. Direct labeling like
this keeps your audience's attention fixed on your graphic and helps them identify data quickly. While legends force the audience to do more work, because a legend 
is positioned away from the chart's data.
