-> Bias has evolved to become a preference in favor of or against a person, group of people, or thing. It can be conscious or subconscious. The good news is once we 
   know and accept that we have bias, we can start to recognize our own patterns of thinking and learn how to manage it. 
   It's important to know that bias can also find its way into the world of data. 

-> Data bias is a type of error that systematically skews results in a certain direction. 

-> Sampling bias is when a sample isn't representative of the population as a whole. You can avoid this by making sure the sample is chosen at random, so that all 
   parts of the population have an equal chance of being included. If you don't use random sampling during data collection, you end up favoring one outcome.
   
-> Unbiased sampling results in a sample that's representative of the population being measured. Another great way to discover if you're working with unbiased data 
   is to bring the results to life with visualizations.
   
-> TYPES OF DATA BIAS:
      1. Sampling bias
      2. Observer Bias
      3. Interpretation bias
      4. Confirmation bias

-> Observer bias: Sometimes referred to as experimenter bias or research bias. Basically, it's the tendency for different people to observe things differently.

-> Interpretation bias: The tendency to always interpret ambiguous situations in a positive, or negative way. Interpretation bias, can lead to two people seeing or 
   hearing the exact same thing, and interpreting it in a variety of different ways, because they have different backgrounds, and experiences. 

-> Confirmation bias, is the tendency to search for, or interpret information in a way that confirms preexisting beliefs. Someone might be so eager to confirm a gut 
   feeling, that they only notice things that support it, ignoring all other signals. This happens all the time in everyday life. 

-> ROCCC, R-O-C-C-C. This is a method to identify good data resources. 
   
   R for reliable. Like a good friend, good data sources are reliable. With this data you can trust that you're getting accurate, complete and unbiased information 
   that's been vetted and proven fit for use. 
   
   Onto O. O is for original. There's a good chance you'll discover data through a second or third party source. To make sure you're dealing with good data, 
   be sure to validate it with the original source. 
   
   Time for the first C. C is for comprehensive. The best data sources contain all critical information needed to answer the question or find the solution. 
   
   Think about it like this. You wouldn't want to work for a company just because you found one great online review about it. You'd research every aspect 
   of the organization to make sure it was the right fit. It's important to do the same for your data analysis. 
   
   The next C is for current. The usefulness of data decreases as time passes. If you wanted to invite all current clients to a business event, you wouldn't
   use a 10-year-old client list. The same goes for data. The best data sources are current and relevant to the task at hand. 
   
   The last C is for cited. If you've ever told a friend where you heard that a new movie sequel was in the works, you've cited a source. Citing makes the
   information you're providing more credible. 
   
   When you're choosing a data source, think about three things. Who created the data set? Is it part of a credible organization? When was the data last refreshed? 
   If you have original data from a reliable organization and it's comprehensive, current, and cited, it ROCCCs!
   
-> Bad data sources that don't follow ROCCC. They're not reliable, original, comprehensive, current or cited. Even worse, they could be flat-out wrong or 
   filled with human error. We'll start again with R. R is for not reliable. Bad data can't be trusted because it's inaccurate, incomplete, or biased. 
   This could be data that has sample selection bias because it doesn't reflect the overall population. Or it could be data visualizations and graphs that 
   are just misleading.
   
   O is for not original. If you can't locate the original data source and you're just relying on second or third party information, that can signal you may need 
   to be extra careful in understanding your data.
   
   Now, C is for not comprehensive. Bad data sources are missing important information needed to answer the question or find the solution. What's worse, they may 
   contain human error, too.
   
   The next C is for not current. Bad data sources are out of date and irrelevant. Many respected sources refresh their data regularly, giving you confidence 
   that it's the most current info available. 
   
   The last C is for not cited. If your source hasn't been cited or vetted, it's a no-go. So to sum up, good data should be original data from a reliable
   organization, comprehensive, current, and cited. It should ROCCC! Otherwise, it's bad data.

-> Ethics refers to well-founded standards of right and wrong that prescribe what humans ought to do, usually in terms of rights, obligations, benefits to society, 
   fairness or specific virtues. Just like humans, data has standards to live up to as well. 
   
   Data ethics refers to well- founded standards of right and wrong that dictate how data is collected, shared, and used. Since the ability to collect, 
   share and use data in such large quantities is relatively new, the rules that regulate and govern the process are still evolving. The importance of 
   data privacy has been recognized by governments worldwide and they started creating data protection legislation to help protect people and their data. 
   
   The GDPR of the European Union was created to do just this.

-> Data ethics tries to get to the root of the accountability companies have in protecting and responsibly using the data they collect. 
   There are lots of different aspects of data ethics but we'll cover six: ownership, transaction transparency, consent, currency, privacy, and openness.
   
      1. First up is ownership. This answers the question who owns data? It isn't the organization that invested time and money collecting, storing, processing, 
         and analyzing it. It's individuals who own the raw data they provide, and they have primary control over its usage, how it's processed and how it's shared. 
         
      2. Next, we have transaction transparency, which is the idea that all data processing activities and algorithms should be completely explainable and 
         understood by the individual who provides their data. This is in response to concerns over data bias, which we discussed earlier, is a type of error that
         systematically skews results in a certain direction. Biased outcomes can lead to negative consequences. To avoid them, it's helpful to provide 
         transparent analysis especially to the people who share their data. This lets people judge whether the outcome is fair and unbiased and allows them to
         raise potential concerns. 
      
      3. Now let's talk about another aspect of data ethics, consent. This is an individual's right to know explicit details about how and why their data will 
         be used before agreeing to provide it. They should know answers to questions like why is the data being collected? How will it be used? How long will it 
         be stored? The best way to give consent is probably a conversation between the person providing the data and the person requesting it. 
         But with so much activity happening online these days, consent usually just looks like a terms and conditions checkbox with links to more details. 
         Let's face it, not everyone clicks through to read those details. Consent is important because it prevents all populations from being unfairly 
         targeted which is a very big deal for marginalized groups who are often disproportionately misrepresented by biased data. 
         
      4. Next, there's currency. Individuals should be aware of financial transactions resulting from the use of their personal data and the scale of these
         transactions. If your data is helping to fund a company's efforts, you should know what those efforts are all about and be given the opportunity to
         opt out. 
         
      5. Privacy is personal. We may all define privacy in our own way, and we're all entitled to it. Whether it's family members wanting privacy when using a 
         shared computer, a teenager wanting to share a selfie with only specific people, or a company wanting to keep their customers' credit card info secure, 
         we're all concerned how our data is used and shared. Data privacy is big in today's culture, so let's explore it fully. When talking about data, privacy
         means preserving a data subject's information and activity any time a data transaction occurs. This is sometimes called information privacy or data
         protection. It's all about access, use, and collection of data. It also covers a person's legal right to their data. This means someone like you or me
         should have protection from unauthorized access to our private data, freedom from inappropriate use of our data, the right to inspect, update, or correct
         our data, ability to give consent to use our data, and legal right to access our data. For companies, it means putting privacy measures in place to protect
         the individuals' data. 
         
      6. The idea of openness, free access, usage, and sharing of data. Openness refers to free access, usage and sharing of data. Sometimes we refer to this as 
         open data, but it doesn't mean we ignore the other aspects of data ethics we covered. We should still be transparent, respect privacy, and make sure we 
         have consent for data that's owned by others. This just means we can access, use, and share that data if it meets these high standards. For example, there 
         are standards around availability and access. Open data must be available as a whole, preferably by downloading over the Internet in a convenient and 
         modifiable form. The website data.gov is a great example. 
         
         Another standard surrounds reuse and redistribution. Open data must be provided under terms that allow reuse and redistribution including the ability to 
         use it with other datasets. And the last area is universal participation. Everyone must be able to use, reuse, and redistribute the data. There shouldn't 
         be any discrimination against fields, persons, or groups. No one can place restrictions on the data like making it only available for use in a specific 
         industry. 
         
         One of the biggest benefits of open data is that credible databases can be used more widely. More importantly, all of that good data can be leveraged, 
         shared, and combined with other data. 
         
         A whole lot of resources are needed to make the technological shift to open data. Interoperability is key to open data's success. 
         Interoperability is the ability of data systems and services to openly connect and share data. For example, data interoperability is important for 
         health care information systems where multiple organizations such as hospitals, clinics, pharmacies, and laboratories need to access and share data to 
         ensure patients get the care that they need.

-> Data anonymization is the process of protecting people's private or sensitive data by eliminating that kind of information. Typically, data anonymization 
   involves blanking, hashing, or masking personal information, often by using fixed-length codes to represent data columns, or hiding data with altered values. 
   
   Data anonymization is used in just about every industry. That is why it is so important for data analysts to understand the basics. Here is a list of data that 
   is often anonymized:

      Telephone numbers

      Names

      License plates and license numbers

      Social security numbers

      IP addresses

      Medical records

      Email addresses

      Photographs

      Account numbers

-> Openness refers to free access, usage, and sharing of data. But for data to be considered open, it has to:

      Be available and accessible to the public as a complete dataset

      Be provided under terms that allow it to be reused and redistributed

      Allow universal participation so that anyone can use, reuse, and redistribute the data
