-> A data frame is a collection of columns. 

-> The columns contain one variable, and the rows have a set of values that match each column. We use data frames for a lot of the same reasons as tables too. 
They help summarize data and put it into a format that's easy to read and use. There's some things to know about data frames before working with them. We'll learn 
more about data frames throughout this program, but this is a great starting point. First, columns should be named. Using empty column names can create problems with 
your results later on.

-> All of these columns represent data about the diamonds. Next, it's important to know that the data stored in your data frame can be many different types, 
like numeric, factor, or character. Often data frames contain dates, time stamps and logical vectors. Finally, each column should contain the same number of data 
items, even if some of those data items are missing. Data frames are foundational.

-> Tibbles are like streamlined data frames. They make working with data easier, but they're a little different from standard data frames. First, tibbles never change 
the data types of the inputs. They won't change your strings to factors or anything else. You can make more changes to base data frames, but tibbles are easier to 
use. This saves time because you won't have to do as much cleaning or changing data types in tibbles. Tibbles also never change the names of your variables, and they 
never create row names.

Finally, tibbles make printing in R easier. They won't accidentally overload your console because they're automatically set to pull up only the first 10 rows and as
many columns as fit on screen. Super useful when you're working with large sets of data. Data frames and tibbles are the building blocks for analysis in R so having 
set standards for how they're built and dealt with is pretty important. 

-> The mutate function is part of the dplyr package which is in the tidyverse.

-> Here package. This package makes referencing files easier. To install it, we'll just write install.packages. Then in the parentheses, we'll put Here and RStudio
will install it. After we install it, we'll also need to load it using library. Next, we'll install Skimr and Janitor. As a quick reminder, these packages simplify 
data cleaning tasks. They're both really useful and do slightly different things. The Skimr package makes summarizing data really easy and let's you skim through it
more quickly. We'll install it now.

The Janitor package has functions for cleaning data.

-> Similar to the rename function, the rename_with() function can change column names to be more consistent. For example, maybe we want all of our column names to be
in uppercase. We can use the rename_with() function to do that. This will automatically make our column names uppercase. But since variable names are usually 
lowercase, we'll use the "To lower" option to change it back.
