-> RESUME BUILDING TIPS
   
   Accomplished X as measured by Y, by doing Z. Here's an example of how this might read on a resume: Selected as one of 275 participants nationwide for this 12-month 
   professional development program for high- achieving talent based on leadership potential and academic success.
   
   Format your resume

   First, you’ll make some decisions about the structure and layout of your resume. You’ll start by examining the two templates and decide which format you like best.
   Spend some time browsing the templates, as well as templates available to you on the web. Take note of the things you like or dislike about the various formats. 
   It’s okay to take some time and be selective here. You’ll be spending a lot of time on this document, so picking a format you’re happy with will help you get off
   to a strong start. 


   Formats and templates

   Before creating your resume, you need to make some design decisions. While you may make some small tweaks and changes to tailor the content of your resume to
   specific roles you are applying for, the structure and format of the resume likely won’t change. This means it is important to spend time thinking about how 
   you’ll want to structure your resume.  


   Keep your resume format concise


   There’s no “best” format for a resume. Instead, think about what you want to highlight about yourself to potential employers. 

   For instance, if you have relevant work experience, then pick a format to highlight that. 

   If you are transitioning from a different career and don’t yet have relevant work experience, then you may want to pick a format that highlights your technical
   skills and portfolio projects. Some resume formats include a Summary or Goals section at the top to help candidates add context to their application, while other
   resume formats avoid these sections completely and save that space for sections such as Skills and Experience.  

   Whatever format you pick, make sure to follow the one-page rule and keep the completed version on just a single page. If the one-page rule seems limiting, think 
   about the purpose resumes serve in the hiring process overall. Resumes are short documents designed to communicate the most pertinent information about yourself 
   to recruiters and hiring managers at a glance. These are different from longer, multi-page Curriculum Vitaes (CVs) that exhaustively list every relevant thing 
   the candidate has ever done. 

   If an employer wants a detailed history of your past work experiences and accolades, they might specifically request a CV (curriculum vitae) instead. If they
   don’t, always assume they prefer a resume. While it is generally considered acceptable for resumes of applicants with extensive work history applying for senior
   technical roles to have two-page resumes, these are the exception rather than the rule. When applying for a data analyst position, keep it to one page! 


   Select a format
   Once you decide on a template, resist the urge to begin filling it out. The next lessons will focus on best practices for communicating your skills and 
   experience in meaningful, impactful ways. Keep this resume template handy, as you’ll be working on it further. 

-> What is most important to consider when you select a resume format?
   - What you want to emphasize to potential employers.

-> One strategy you can use in your summary and throughout your resume is P-A-R, or PAR statements. PAR stands for Problem, Action, Result. This is a great way to 
   help you write clearly and concisely. Instead of saying something like, "was responsible for writing two blogs a month," you'd say, "earned little-known 
   website over 2,000 new clicks through strategic blogging." The website being little-known is the problem. The strategic action is the strategic blogging. 
   And the result is the 2,000 new clicks. Adding PAR statements to your job descriptions or skill section can help with the organization and consistency in your
   resume.

-> Data analysts are expected to have strong technical skills and abilities, so effectively highlighting those skills is a crucial part of crafting your resume. 
   Focus on your skills for this activity. Don’t worry about adding your work experience just yet; you’ll complete that in a future activity.
   
   Reviewing real-world resumes is always a great idea. It can help you get a feel for how others in the industry are representing their experience and skills. 
   You can find resumes on job sites and LinkedIn or even just by searching for “data analyst resume.”  There are many ways to represent your technical skills, 
   and taking a moment to understand how other data analysts do this may give you some great ideas! 
   
   The skills section on your resume likely only has room for 2-4 bullet points, so be sure to use this space effectively. You might want to prioritize technical 
   skills over soft skills. This is a great chance for you to highlight some of the skills you’ve picked up in these courses, such as:

      Strong analytical skills

      Pattern recognition

      Relational databases and SQL

      Strong data visualization skills

      Proficiency with spreadsheets, SQL, R, and Tableau

-> Soft skills are non-technical traits and behaviors that relate to how you work. Being detail-oriented and demonstrating perseverance are two more examples of 
   soft skills that anyone hiring a data analyst will look for. 

-> It takes lots of skills to be a successful data analyst, and these are some common ones that employers seek out when hiring for data analyst jobs:
1. Structured Query Language (SQL): SQL is considered a basic skill that is pivotal to any entry-level data analyst position. SQL helps you communicate with
   databases, and more specifically, it is designed to help you retrieve information from databases. Every month, thousands of data analyst jobs posted require 
   SQL, and knowing how to use SQL remains one of the most common job functions of a data analyst. 

2. Spreadsheets: Although SQL is popular, 62% of companies still prefer to use spreadsheets for their data insights. When getting your first job as a data analyst,
   the first version of your database might be in spreadsheet form, which is still a powerful tool for reporting or even presenting data sets. So, it is important 
   for you to be familiar with using spreadsheets for your data insights.

3. Data visualization tools: Data visualization tools help to simplify complex data and enable the data to be visually understood. After gathering and analyzing 
   data, data analysts are tasked with presenting their findings and making that information simple to grasp. Common tools that are used in data analysis include 
   Tableau, Microstrategy, Data Studio, Looker, Datarama, Microsoft Power BI, and many more. Among these, Tableau is best known for its ease of use, so it is a 
   must-have for beginner data analysts. Also, studies show that data analysis jobs requiring Tableau are expected to grow about 34.9% over the next decade.

4. R or Python programming: Since only less than a third of entry-level data analyst positions require knowledge of Python or R, you don’t need to be proficient 
   in programming languages as an entry-level data analyst. But, R or Python are great additions to have as you become more advanced in your career. 

-> SOFT SKILLS:
   1. Presentation skills

   Although gathering and analyzing data is a big part of the job, presenting your findings in a clear and simple way is just as important. You will want to 
   structure your findings in a way that allows your audience to know exactly what conclusions they are supposed to draw. 

   2. Collaboration 

   As a data analyst, you will be asked to work with lots of teams and stakeholders—sometimes internal or external—and your ability to share ideas, insights, and 
   criticisms will be crucial. It is important that you and your team—which might consist of engineers and researchers—do your best to get the job done. 

   3. Communication

   Data analysts must communicate effectively to obtain the data that they need. It is also important that you are able to work and clearly communicate with teams
   and business leaders in a language that they understand. 

   4. Research 

   As a data analyst, even if you have all of the data at your disposal, you still need to analyze it and draw crucial insights from it. To analyze the data and
   draw conclusions, you will need to conduct research to stay in-line with industry trends. 

   5. Problem-solving skills 

   Problem-solving is a big part of a data analyst’s job, and you will encounter times when there are errors in databases, code, or even the capturing of data. 
   You will have to adapt and think outside the box to find alternative solutions to these problems.

   6. Adaptability 

   In the ever-changing world of data, you have to be adaptable and flexible. As a data analyst, you will be working across multiple teams with different levels
   of needs and knowledge, which requires you to adjust to different teams, knowledge levels, and stakeholders.  

   7. Attention to detail 

   A single line of incorrect code can throw everything off, so paying attention to detail is critical for a data analyst. When it comes to understanding and 
   reporting findings, it helps if you focus on the details that matter to your audience. 

-> New analysts work in a wide range of industries. Health care analysts gather and interpret data from sources like electronic health records and patient surveys.
   Their work helps organizations improve the quality of their care. 
   Health care analysts might also look for ways to lower the cost of care and improve patient experience. 
   Data analysts in marketing complete quantitative and qualitative market analysis. They identify important statistics and interpret and present their findings
   to help stakeholders understand the data behind their marketing strategies. 
   Business intelligence analysts help companies use data they've collected to increase their efficiency and maximize their profits. These analysts usually work 
   with large amounts of data to identify trends and generate business insights. 
   Financial analysts also work with lots of data. Really all analysts do. But financial analysts use the data to identify and potentially recommend business and 
   investment opportunities. If you're a junior analyst in this field, you'll probably start off doing a lot of data gathering and financial modeling as well as 
   spreadsheet maintenance. 
   This is just a small taste of the types of data analyst jobs out there. Each type we've covered can branch out into other industries as well. For example, 
   business intelligence analysts can work in health care, government, e-commerce and more.
