In reviewing the data analysis process so far, you have already performed a lot of these steps. Here are some examples to think about before you begin writing 
your learning log entry: 

  You asked an interesting question and defined a problem to solve through data analysis to answer that question. 

  You thought deeply about what data you would need and how you would collect it in order to prepare for analysis.

  You processed your data by organizing and structuring it in a table and then moving it to a spreadsheet. 

  You analyzed your data by inspecting and scanning it for patterns.

  You shared your first data visualization: a bar chart.

  Finally, after completing all the other steps, you acted: You reflected on your results, made decisions, and gained insight into your problem--even if that 
  insight was that you didn't have enough data, or that there were no obvious patterns in your data. 

-> An issue is a topic or subject to investigate. 

-> A question is designed to discover information.

-> A problem is an obstacle or complication that needs to be worked out. 

-> Fairness means ensuring that your analysis doesn't create or reinforce bias. In other words, as a data analyst, you want to help create systems that are fair 
  and inclusive to everyone
  
IMPORTANT FACTORS TO LOOK FOR IN DREAM JOB

industry, tools, location, travel, and culture.

-> The data analyst role is one of many job titles that contain the word “analyst.” 

  To name a few others that sound similar but may not be the same role:

  Business analyst — analyzes data to help businesses improve processes, products, or services.

  Data analytics consultant — analyzes the systems and models for using data.

  Data engineer — prepares and integrates data from different sources for analytical use.

  Data scientist — uses expert skills in technology and social science to find trends through data analysis.

  Data specialist — organizes or converts data for use in databases or software systems.

  Operations analyst — analyzes data to assess the performance of business operations and workflows.
